
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="social_engineering">Social Engineering</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In information security, social engineering is the concept of using human manipulation rather than technological means when compromising organizations or private systems. Social engineering attacks are extremely common and often used as a means to execute other types of computer based attacks. Although social engineering is often the most prevalent threat to organizations and individuals, it is one of the hardest threats to combat. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Social Engineering" [1-472] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="definition">Definition</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Social engineering in the context of information security is the practice of manipulating human beings as opposed to physical or virtual systems for malicious intent. Other definitions of social engineering include “manipulating a person to take an action that <em>may or may not</em> be in the “target&#039;s” best interest”
<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
and “an <em>act of intrusion</em> … <em>prepared and carried out &#039;socially&#039;</em>”. 
<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>. 
Although definitions of social engineering differ slightly across publications, one common aspect they share is that the attack always involves a human component. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Definition" [473-1332] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="common_types_of_social_engineering_attacks">Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks" [1333-1386] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="phishing">Phishing</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Phishing" [1387-1405] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="whaling">Whaling</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Whaling" [1406-1423] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="physical_devices">Physical Devices</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Physical Devices" [1424-1450] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="impersonation">Impersonation</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Impersonation" [1451-1473] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="prevalence_of_social_engineering">Prevalence of Social Engineering</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Prevalence of Social Engineering" [1474-1517] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="mitigation">Mitigation</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Mitigation" [1518-1539] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="references">References</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "References" [1540-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Hadnagy, Christopher. <em>Social engineering: the art of human hacking</em>. Wiley, 2011.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Tetri, Pekka, and Jukka Vuorinen. “Dissecting social engineering.” <em>Behaviour &amp; Information Technology</em>, vol. 32, no. 10, 2013, pp. 1014–1023., doi:10.1080/0144929x.2013.763860.</div></div>
</div>
