
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="introduction">Introduction</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In information security, social engineering is the concept of using human manipulation rather than technological means when compromising organizations or private systems. Social engineering attacks are extremely common and often used as a means to execute other types of computer based attacks. Although social engineering is often the most prevalent threat to organizations and individuals, it is one of the hardest threats to combat. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Introduction" [1-464] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="definition">Definition</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Social engineering in the context of information security is defined by the leading texts in various ways. These definitions include “manipulating a person to take an action that <em>may or may not</em> be in the “target&#039;s” best interest”
<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
and “an <em>act of intrusion</em> … <em>prepared and carried out &#039;socially&#039;</em>”
<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>. 
Although definitions of social engineering differ slightly across publications, they contain a common theme, using human manipulation to achieve a certain means as opposed to technological manipulation. Therefore social engineering in the context of information security can be defined as the act of utilizing human manipulation as opposed to technological means when trying to achieve malicious intent. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Definition" [465-1484] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="goals">Goals</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
There is no one defined goal of attackers who use social engineering. In contemporary information security, most attacks utilize social engineering to gain unlawful access to systems, execute malicious software, ex-filtrate data, etc. 
</p>

<p>
In recent years however, the main goal of malicious actors seem to be financial gain<sup><a href="#fn__3" id="fnt__3" class="fn_top">3)</a></sup>. Social engineering campaigns in 2017 have increased against financial institutions, with 38 percent of financial threats coming from phishing campaigns<sup><a href="#fn__4" id="fnt__4" class="fn_top">4)</a></sup>. Furthermore, there have been an increase in ransomware, with malvertising used as the preferred infection technique<sup><a href="#fn__5" id="fnt__5" class="fn_top">5)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Goals" [1485-2299] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="common_types_of_social_engineering_attacks">Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Although social engineering takes many forms, there are several attacks that are widely used in contemporary information security breaches. These attacks are often used due to their ease and ability to target a magnitude of victims to increase chances of success. These attacks are also used to open infiltration vectors in networks to deliver malicious payloads or extract data.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks" [2300-2737] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="phishing">Phishing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Phishing is one of the most common types of social engineering attacks. It is defined as “a broadly launched social engineering attack in which an electronic identity is misrepresented in an attempt to trick individuals into revealing personal credentials that can be used fraudulently against them”<sup><a href="#fn__6" id="fnt__6" class="fn_top">6)</a></sup>. Phishing is most commonly achieved through email, although modern attacks have seen malicious actors using social media, instant messaging, social media, etc <sup><a href="#fn__7" id="fnt__7" class="fn_top">7)</a></sup>. In fact, 2016 saw most commonly observed malware being delivered through social media scams<sup><a href="#fn__8" id="fnt__8" class="fn_top">8)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Traditionally, phishing attacks focused on sensitive data extraction, with attackers utilizing fake online forms and credentials attached to the email to lure victims into giving them their information<sup><a href="#fn__9" id="fnt__9" class="fn_top">9)</a></sup>. However, phishing attacks have evolved in the past several years to include malicious attachments in emails such as ransomware, malware, etc. In 2015, IBM listed phishing as one of the top three infection vectors for ransomware seen in organizations<sup><a href="#fn__10" id="fnt__10" class="fn_top">10)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Phishing" [2738-4488] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="spear_phishing">Spear Phishing</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Spear phishing refers to a specialized type of phishing that utilizes personal information about the victim to craft malicious messages. Spear phishing is much more effective then normal phishing as messages are tailored towards the victim. Attackers will utilize personal information gathered from the victim such as shopping habits, business ventures, etc to tailor a message based on the topics gathered. This leads to a greater chance of the victim being tempted to follow instructions or execute payloads included in the email. Due to the effectiveness of spear phishing, nearly 91 percent of all social engineering attacks utilize spear phishing<sup><a href="#fn__11" id="fnt__11" class="fn_top">11)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Spear phishing differs from traditional phishing in that it utilizes the victim&#039;s personal information. This additional step requires that attackers utilize methods of information gathering before executing the phishing attack. Information gathering can be achieved through technical means such as breaking into systems or emails. However, another layer of social engineering can be utilized to gather personal information such as traditional phishing or <a href="/doku.php?id=physical_methods" class="wikilink2" title="physical_methods" rel="nofollow"> physical access</a>. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Spear Phishing" [4489-5926] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="anglr_phishing">Anglr Phishing</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Anglr Phishing" [5927-5951] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="business_email_compromise">Business Email Compromise</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Business Email Compromise" [5952-5987] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit9" id="whaling">Whaling</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Whaling" [5988-6004] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="physical_methods">Physical Methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Physical Methods" [6005-6033] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="impersonation">Impersonation</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Impersonation" [6034-6058] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit12" id="success_factors">Success Factors</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "Success Factors" [6059-6087] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit13" id="prevalence_of_social_engineering">Prevalence of Social Engineering</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Social engineering is one of the most prevalent types of cyber attacks that large organizations(companies, financial institutions, governments) face. Due to the ease of execution and economical financial cost, many malicious actors prefer social engineering as an attack vector. Combined with the unique aspect that some social engineering attacks can be executed on a large scale(such as phishing), organizations are constantly targeted by these attacks. 
</p>

<p>
Various reports and studies corroborate the prevalence of social engineering attacks. In the SANS 2017 Threat Landscape Survey, over 70 percent of professionals had seen phishing attacks executed against their organization, far eclipsing the next most prevalent threat (spyware at 50 percent)<sup><a href="#fn__12" id="fnt__12" class="fn_top">12)</a></sup>. When looking at surveys conducted by MIT Technology Review Custom, over 40 percent of IT professionals saw employee BYOD(bring your own device) and email attacks as the highest growing security threats<sup><a href="#fn__13" id="fnt__13" class="fn_top">13)</a></sup>. Because social engineering attacks often rely on these infiltration vectors, this data shows that social engineering is not only frequent, but also a growing in popularity. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Prevalence of Social Engineering" [6088-7455] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit14" id="impact_of_social_engineering">Impact of Social Engineering</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
When looking at information security with a broader perspective, 62 percent of cyber-security professionals were moderately to not at all confident with security measures in their organization<sup><a href="#fn__14" id="fnt__14" class="fn_top">14)</a></sup>. From this data, it can be surmised that a majority of organizations would be moderately to severely compromised when struck by any cyber attack.
</p>

<p>
The frequency of social engineering attacks combined with the fact that most of organizations are not ready to combat security threats make social engineering an extreme concern to most organizations. Security professionals in 2017 rank phishing as the most concerning type of malicious cyber activity that their organization faces<sup><a href="#fn__15" id="fnt__15" class="fn_top">15)</a></sup>. Furthermore, these same professionals rank endpoint(desktop, laptop, personal devices) security as the least capable aspect of their organization&#039;s security profile<sup><a href="#fn__16" id="fnt__16" class="fn_top">16)</a></sup>. Because social engineering attacks by their nature commonly target endpoints(phishing, whaling, etc), the weakened state of these security solutions is especially concerning. These findings are corroborated by multiple reports. The 2017 Threat Landscape Survey done by SANS found that 40 percent of security professionals identified phishing and it&#039;s variations as the top threat facing their organization. Furthermore, over 30 percent of these phishing attacks had significant impact on these professional&#039;s organization, a number that also eclipsed the next most impactful threat (ransomware at under 20 percent)<sup><a href="#fn__17" id="fnt__17" class="fn_top">17)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Financial losses due to social engineering are also staggering. FICO data shows that in 2015 and 2016, UK online banking fraud caused losses of over £100 million. Furthermore, E-commerce losses in 2016 totaled over £300 million. Banking and E-commerce fraud victims also grew from 2015-2016<sup><a href="#fn__18" id="fnt__18" class="fn_top">18)</a></sup>. Banking and E-commerce fraud are not the only financial burdens caused by social engineering. There were three cases of BEC attacks from 2015-2016 that resulted in losses of over $40 million, with the worst attack having saw losses of over $70 million<sup><a href="#fn__19" id="fnt__19" class="fn_top">19)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "Impact of Social Engineering" [7456-9963] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit15" id="mitigation">Mitigation</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "Mitigation" [9964-9987] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit16" id="references">References</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT16 SECTION "References" [9988-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Hadnagy, Christopher. <em>Social engineering: the art of human hacking</em>. Wiley, 2011.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Tetri, Pekka, and Jukka Vuorinen. “Dissecting social engineering.” <em>Behaviour &amp; Information Technology</em>, vol. 32, no. 10, 2013, pp. 1014–1023., doi:10.1080/0144929x.2013.763860.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__3" id="fn__3" class="fn_bot">3)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__5" id="fn__5" class="fn_bot">5)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__8" id="fn__8" class="fn_bot">8)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Cisco 2016 Annual Security Report.” Cisco, Jan. 2016.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__4" id="fn__4" class="fn_bot">4)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Wueest, Candid . “Financial Threats Review 2017.” Symantec, May 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__6" id="fn__6" class="fn_bot">6)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Four Steps to Effectively Protecting Your Organization from Phishing Attacks.” Cyveillance, Jan. 2015.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__7" id="fn__7" class="fn_bot">7)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Krombholz, Katharina, et al. “Social engineering attacks on the knowledge worker.” Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Security of Information and Networks - SIN 13, 2013, doi:10.1145/2523514.2523596.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__9" id="fn__9" class="fn_bot">9)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Osuagwu, E. U., et al. “Mitigating social engineering for improved cybersecurity.” 2015 International Conference on Cyberspace (CYBER-Abuja), 2015, doi:10.1109/cyber-abuja.2015.7360515.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__10" id="fn__10" class="fn_bot">10)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Four top cyber crime trends Recurring patterns in IT security incidents managed by IBM.” IBM X-Force® Research, Nov. 2015.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__11" id="fn__11" class="fn_bot">11)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Nelson, Jennifer, et al. “Social Engineering for Security Attacks.” Proceedings of the The 3rd Multidisciplinary International Social Networks Conference on SocialInformatics 2016, Data Science 2016 - MISNC, SI, DS 2016, 2016, doi:10.1145/2955129.2955158.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__12" id="fn__12" class="fn_bot">12)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__17" id="fn__17" class="fn_bot">17)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Neely, Lee. “2017 Threat Landscape Survey.” SANS, Aug. 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__13" id="fn__13" class="fn_bot">13)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Cybersecurity Challenges, Risks, Trends, and Impacts: Survey Executive Summary.” MIT Technology Review Custom, 2016</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__14" id="fn__14" class="fn_bot">14)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__15" id="fn__15" class="fn_bot">15)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__16" id="fn__16" class="fn_bot">16)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Schulze, Holger. “Cyber security trends 2017 spotlight report.” Herjavic Group, 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__18" id="fn__18" class="fn_bot">18)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Social Engineering: Fraud is evolving - are you?” FICO, 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__19" id="fn__19" class="fn_bot">19)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“The BEC Survival Guide.” Proofpoint.</div></div>
</div>
