
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="introduction">Introduction</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In information security, social engineering is the concept of using human manipulation rather than technological means when compromising organizations or private systems. Social engineering attacks are extremely common and often used as a means to execute other types of computer based attacks. Although social engineering is often the most prevalent threat to organizations and individuals, it is one of the hardest threats to combat. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Introduction" [1-464] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="definition">Definition</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Social engineering in the context of information security is defined by the leading texts in various ways. These definitions include “manipulating a person to take an action that <em>may or may not</em> be in the “target&#039;s” best interest”
<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
and “an <em>act of intrusion</em> … <em>prepared and carried out &#039;socially&#039;</em>”
<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>. 
Although definitions of social engineering differ slightly across publications, they contain a common theme, using human manipulation to achieve a certain means as opposed to technological manipulation. Therefore social engineering in the context of information security can be defined as the act of utilizing human manipulation as opposed to technological means when trying to achieve malicious intent. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Definition" [465-1484] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="goals">Goals</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
There is no one defined goal of attackers who use social engineering. In contemporary information security, most attacks utilize social engineering to gain unlawful access to systems, execute malicious software, exfiltrate data, etc. 
</p>

<p>
In recent years however, the main goal of malicious actors seem to be financial gain<sup><a href="#fn__3" id="fnt__3" class="fn_top">3)</a></sup>. Social engineering campaigns in 2017 have increased against financial institutions, with 38 percent of financial threats coming from phishing campaigns<sup><a href="#fn__4" id="fnt__4" class="fn_top">4)</a></sup>. Furthermore, there have been an increase in ransomware, with malvertising used as the preferred infection technique<sup><a href="#fn__5" id="fnt__5" class="fn_top">5)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Goals" [1485-2298] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="common_types_of_social_engineering_attacks">Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Although social engineering takes many forms, there are several attacks that are widely used in contemporary information security breaches. These attacks are often used due to their ease and ability to target a magnitude of victims to increase chances of success. These attacks are also used to open infiltration vectors in networks to deliver malicious payloads or extract data.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Common Types of Social Engineering Attacks" [2299-2736] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="phishing">Phishing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Phishing is one of the most common types of social engineering attacks. It is defined as “a broadly launched social engineering attack in which an electronic identity is misrepresented in an attempt to trick individuals into revealing personal credentials that can be used fraudulently against them”<sup><a href="#fn__6" id="fnt__6" class="fn_top">6)</a></sup>. Phishing is most commonly achieved through email, although modern attacks have seen malicious actors using social media, instant messaging, social media, etc <sup><a href="#fn__7" id="fnt__7" class="fn_top">7)</a></sup>. In fact, 2016 saw most commonly observed malware being delivered through social media scams<sup><a href="#fn__8" id="fnt__8" class="fn_top">8)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Traditionally, phishing attacks focused on sensitive data extraction, with attackers utilizing fake online forms and credentials attached to the email to lure victims into giving them their information<sup><a href="#fn__9" id="fnt__9" class="fn_top">9)</a></sup>. However, phishing attacks have evolved in the past several years to include malicious attachments in emails such as ransomware, malware, etc. In 2015, IBM listed phishing as one of the top three infection vectors for ransomware seen in organizations<sup><a href="#fn__10" id="fnt__10" class="fn_top">10)</a></sup>. Ransomware especially has been seen in phishing campaigns with increased frequency in the past few years. Common attack vectors include Microsoft Word documents that contain macros which are attached to emails. An example of this attack is Locky, a ransomware which infected over 40 countries spread over a massive phishing campaign <sup><a href="#fn__11" id="fnt__11" class="fn_top">11)</a></sup> <sup><a href="#fn__12" id="fnt__12" class="fn_top">12)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Phishing attacks can also be specialized. Phishing that targets high value victims of companies is often known as whaling. There are also other types of phishing such as <a href="#spear_phishing" title="social_engineering ↵" class="wikilink1">spear phishing</a>, <a href="#angler_phishing" title="social_engineering ↵" class="wikilink1">angler phishing</a>, and <a href="#business_email_compromise" title="social_engineering ↵" class="wikilink1">business email compromise</a>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Phishing" [2737-5541] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="spear_phishing">Spear Phishing</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Spear phishing refers to a specialized type of phishing that utilizes personal information about the victim to craft malicious messages. Spear phishing is much more effective then normal phishing as messages are tailored towards the victim. Attackers will utilize personal information gathered from the victim such as shopping habits, business ventures, etc to tailor a message based on the topics gathered. This leads to a greater chance of the victim being tempted to follow instructions or execute payloads included in the email. Due to the effectiveness of spear phishing, nearly 91 percent of all social engineering attacks utilize spear phishing<sup><a href="#fn__13" id="fnt__13" class="fn_top">13)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Spear phishing differs from traditional phishing in that it utilizes the victim&#039;s personal information. This additional step requires that attackers utilize methods of information gathering before executing the phishing attack. Information gathering can be achieved through technical means such as breaking into systems or emails. However, another layer of social engineering can be utilized to gather personal information such as traditional phishing, <a href="#physical_methods" title="social_engineering ↵" class="wikilink1">physical access</a>, or <a href="#phone_methods" title="social_engineering ↵" class="wikilink1"> calling</a>. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Spear Phishing" [5542-7009] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="angler_phishing">Angler Phishing</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Angler phishing is a relatively new form of phishing that emerged in 2016. This form of phishing is unique in that instead of using email, victims are contacted through social media. Attackers will create fake accounts of reputable companies to contact victims. These fake accounts contain malicious links which redirect a victim to a clone of the company website they wish to contact. Victims will enter their information to these cloned websites, directly giving it to the attacker<sup><a href="#fn__14" id="fnt__14" class="fn_top">14)</a></sup>. 
</p>

<p>
Angler phishing was only developed recently due to the fact that it takes advantage of a relatively new social trend. In recent times, brand reputation for many consumer companies rely heavily on their social media presence. Therefore, many customers will file complaints against companies by going to their social media. This gives attackers an infiltration vector as they can disguise themselves as the contacted entity and respond before the actual company has a chance to. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Angler Phishing" [7010-8060] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="business_email_compromise">Business Email Compromise</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Business email compromise(BEC) is a form of phishing specially tailored for companies. BEC is done by attackers impersonating/spoofing the email of a higher level executive in the company. The attackers will then usually target the CFO, HR, or payroll and request wire transfers, internal company documents, financial records, etc. Attackers could also spoof clients, vendors, or other partners of the company for this attack <sup><a href="#fn__15" id="fnt__15" class="fn_top">15)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
BEC attacks are executed by mainly spoofed names and reply-to spoofing. In the spoofed name attack, the malicious actor will only spoof the name field of the email to match that of an executive, with the actual address coming from an outside source. In reply-to spoofing, the email address is also spoofed, but the reply-to address is different. These techniques can be made more effective by the attacker utilizing information such as internal company structure, valid clients, etc. This can be done through a variety of information gathering techniques including other forms of social engineering such as phone calls or traditional phishing <sup><a href="#fn__16" id="fnt__16" class="fn_top">16)</a></sup>.  
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Business Email Compromise" [8061-9263] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="physical_methods">Physical Methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Social engineering is not only achieved by cyber methods, but also physical methods. Although physical methods involve a certain degree of risk for the attacker, these methods are still very popular as physical methods could lead to either sensitive data or internal company data which could later be utilized in cyber attacks. 
</p>

<p>
One of the most prevalent forms of physical social engineering is dumpster diving. Attackers could search the trash of the intended victim with the goal of finding sensitive documents, organizational information, or even passwords to computer systems written on paper<sup><a href="#fn__17" id="fnt__17" class="fn_top">17)</a></sup>. Bad security practices by the victim such as improper shredding of documents and improper disposal of storage mediums such as hard-drives and flash-drives could allow the attacker to obtain even more information than normal<sup><a href="#fn__18" id="fnt__18" class="fn_top">18)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Another popular physical social engineering attack is known as “road apples”. This attack involves the attacker leaving devices such as USB drives in high traffic locations near the victim company. This media is often made to look as appealing as possible to the victim as to get them to use it on an internal system, while containing malicious executables to infect those systems<sup><a href="#fn__19" id="fnt__19" class="fn_top">19)</a></sup>. These attacks have a decent success rate, with a study conducted on a college campus, finding that nearly 45-95 percent of dropped flash drives were connected onto a computer within a 7 hour time frame <sup><a href="#fn__20" id="fnt__20" class="fn_top">20)</a></sup>. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Physical Methods" [9264-11339] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="phone_methods">Phone Methods</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Calling is one of the most traditional forms of social engineering, and still utilized by attackers. Often used as an information gathering technique, calling can gather internal structure and inner workings of companies that can later be used in other social engineering attacks. Many times, attackers will directly ask for the information they are seeking, often impersonating clients or other companies. Successful attempts utilize  techniques that make the call more legitimate such as having knowledge of personnel inside the company or internal company operations. Other techniques can be used such as displaying urgency and rapid questioning to catch an employee off guard <sup><a href="#fn__21" id="fnt__21" class="fn_top">21)</a></sup> <sup><a href="#fn__22" id="fnt__22" class="fn_top">22)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Phone Methods" [11340-12221] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit11" id="prevalence_of_social_engineering">Prevalence of Social Engineering</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Social engineering is one of the most prevalent types of cyber attacks that large organizations(companies, financial institutions, governments) face. Due to the ease of execution and economical financial cost, many malicious actors prefer social engineering as an attack vector. Combined with the unique aspect that some social engineering attacks can be executed on a large scale(such as phishing), organizations are constantly targeted by these attacks. 
</p>

<p>
Various reports and studies corroborate the prevalence of social engineering attacks. In the SANS 2017 Threat Landscape Survey, over 70 percent of professionals had seen phishing attacks executed against their organization, far eclipsing the next most prevalent threat (spyware at 50 percent)<sup><a href="#fn__23" id="fnt__23" class="fn_top">23)</a></sup>. When looking at surveys conducted by MIT Technology Review Custom, over 40 percent of IT professionals saw employee BYOD(bring your own device) and email attacks as the highest growing security threats<sup><a href="#fn__24" id="fnt__24" class="fn_top">24)</a></sup>. Because social engineering attacks often rely on these infiltration vectors, this data shows that social engineering is not only frequent, but also a growing in popularity. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Prevalence of Social Engineering" [12222-13589] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit12" id="impact_of_social_engineering">Impact of Social Engineering</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
When looking at information security with a broader perspective, 62 percent of cyber-security professionals were moderately to not at all confident with security measures in their organization<sup><a href="#fn__25" id="fnt__25" class="fn_top">25)</a></sup>. From this data, it can be surmised that a majority of organizations would be moderately to severely compromised when struck by any cyber attack.
</p>

<p>
The frequency of social engineering attacks combined with the fact that most of organizations are not ready to combat security threats make social engineering an extreme concern to most organizations. Security professionals in 2017 rank phishing as the most concerning type of malicious cyber activity that their organization faces<sup><a href="#fn__26" id="fnt__26" class="fn_top">26)</a></sup>. Furthermore, these same professionals rank endpoint(desktop, laptop, personal devices) security as the least capable aspect of their organization&#039;s security profile<sup><a href="#fn__27" id="fnt__27" class="fn_top">27)</a></sup>. Because social engineering attacks by their nature commonly target endpoints(phishing, whaling, etc), the weakened state of these security solutions is especially concerning. These findings are corroborated by multiple reports. The 2017 Threat Landscape Survey done by SANS found that 40 percent of security professionals identified phishing and it&#039;s variations as the top threat facing their organization. Furthermore, over 30 percent of these phishing attacks had significant impact on these professional&#039;s organization, a number that also eclipsed the next most impactful threat (ransomware at under 20 percent)<sup><a href="#fn__28" id="fnt__28" class="fn_top">28)</a></sup>.
</p>

<p>
Financial losses due to social engineering are also staggering. FICO data shows that in 2015 and 2016, UK online banking fraud caused losses of over £100 million. Furthermore, E-commerce losses in 2016 totaled over £300 million. Banking and E-commerce fraud victims also grew from 2015-2016<sup><a href="#fn__29" id="fnt__29" class="fn_top">29)</a></sup>. Banking and E-commerce fraud are not the only financial burdens caused by social engineering. There were three cases of BEC attacks from 2015-2016 that resulted in losses of over $40 million, with the worst attack having saw losses of over $70 million<sup><a href="#fn__30" id="fnt__30" class="fn_top">30)</a></sup>.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "Impact of Social Engineering" [13590-16097] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit13" id="mitigation">Mitigation</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Mitigation for social engineering attacks are various, although difficult to implement. Many times, policies effecting social engineering often effect the availability of company resources. Furthermore, it is difficult to secure the human factor involved in social engineering attacks. Even with these complications, there are a variety of measures that can be taken.
</p>

<p>
In terms of phishing prevention, one of the most obvious mitigations is a robust technical security system. This includes firewalls and IDS systems that can detect fraudulent emails. Scanning email attachments, blocking suspicious IP address, matching signatures with known phishing emails are all steps that can be taken. Furthermore, employees can be trained to not divulge sensitive information over email, or send only encrypted sensitive information. Employees can also be told to not open suspicious attachments or verify that the email came from the source it claims to be from.  
</p>

<p>
In terms of preventing physical social engineering attempts, proper disposal methods for sensitive materials can be implemented. Furthermore, restrictions should be made on allowing outside storage media to be used internally and malware scanners can be built into systems to prevent execution of malicious programs. 
</p>

<p>
For fraudulent phone prevention, employees can be told to not divulge internal information to unknown or unverified callers. Companies could also use NDAs to prevent spreading of information to non privileged clients or personnel.  
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Mitigation" [16098-17631] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit14" id="references">References</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "References" [17632-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__18" id="fn__18" class="fn_bot">18)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Hadnagy, Christopher. <em>Social engineering: the art of human hacking</em>. Wiley, 2011.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Tetri, Pekka, and Jukka Vuorinen. “Dissecting social engineering.” <em>Behaviour &amp; Information Technology</em>, vol. 32, no. 10, 2013, pp. 1014–1023., doi:10.1080/0144929x.2013.763860.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__3" id="fn__3" class="fn_bot">3)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__5" id="fn__5" class="fn_bot">5)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__8" id="fn__8" class="fn_bot">8)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Cisco 2016 Annual Security Report.” Cisco, Jan. 2016.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__4" id="fn__4" class="fn_bot">4)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Wueest, Candid . “Financial Threats Review 2017.” Symantec, May 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__6" id="fn__6" class="fn_bot">6)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Four Steps to Effectively Protecting Your Organization from Phishing Attacks.” Cyveillance, Jan. 2015.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__7" id="fn__7" class="fn_bot">7)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Krombholz, Katharina, et al. “Social engineering attacks on the knowledge worker.” Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Security of Information and Networks - SIN 13, 2013, doi:10.1145/2523514.2523596.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__9" id="fn__9" class="fn_bot">9)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__17" id="fn__17" class="fn_bot">17)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__19" id="fn__19" class="fn_bot">19)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Osuagwu, E. U., et al. “Mitigating social engineering for improved cybersecurity.” 2015 International Conference on Cyberspace (CYBER-Abuja), 2015, doi:10.1109/cyber-abuja.2015.7360515.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__10" id="fn__10" class="fn_bot">10)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Four top cyber crime trends Recurring patterns in IT security incidents managed by IBM.” IBM X-Force® Research, Nov. 2015.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__11" id="fn__11" class="fn_bot">11)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Look Into Locky Ransomware.” Malwarebytes Labs, 28 July 2016, blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2016/03/look-into-locky/</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__12" id="fn__12" class="fn_bot">12)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Chong, Ronghwa. “Locky Ransomware Distributed Via DOCM Attachments in Latest Email Campaigns « Locky Ransomware Distributed Via DOCM Attachments in Latest Email Campaigns.” FireEye, 17 Aug. 2016, <a href="http://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2016/08/locky_ransomwaredis.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2016/08/locky_ransomwaredis.html" rel="nofollow">www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2016/08/locky_ransomwaredis.html</a>.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__13" id="fn__13" class="fn_bot">13)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Nelson, Jennifer, et al. “Social Engineering for Security Attacks.” Proceedings of the The 3rd Multidisciplinary International Social Networks Conference on SocialInformatics 2016, Data Science 2016 - MISNC, SI, DS 2016, 2016, doi:10.1145/2955129.2955158.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__14" id="fn__14" class="fn_bot">14)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Proofpoint the Human Factor 2017.” Proofpoint, 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__15" id="fn__15" class="fn_bot">15)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__16" id="fn__16" class="fn_bot">16)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__30" id="fn__30" class="fn_bot">30)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“The BEC Survival Guide.” Proofpoint.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__20" id="fn__20" class="fn_bot">20)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Tischer, Matthew, et al. “Users Really Do Plug in USB Drives They Find.” 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 2016, doi:10.1109/sp.2016.26.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__21" id="fn__21" class="fn_bot">21)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Mitnick, Kevin D. The art of deception: controlling the human element of security. Wiley, 2003.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__22" id="fn__22" class="fn_bot">22)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“The 2017 Social Engineering Capture the Flag Report.” SECTF, 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__23" id="fn__23" class="fn_bot">23)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__28" id="fn__28" class="fn_bot">28)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Neely, Lee. “2017 Threat Landscape Survey.” SANS, Aug. 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__24" id="fn__24" class="fn_bot">24)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Cybersecurity Challenges, Risks, Trends, and Impacts: Survey Executive Summary.” MIT Technology Review Custom, 2016</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__25" id="fn__25" class="fn_bot">25)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__26" id="fn__26" class="fn_bot">26)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__27" id="fn__27" class="fn_bot">27)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Schulze, Holger. “Cyber security trends 2017 spotlight report.” Herjavic Group, 2017.</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__29" id="fn__29" class="fn_bot">29)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">“Social Engineering: Fraud is evolving - are you?” FICO, 2017.</div></div>
</div>
